# insuranceproject
A portfolio project used from Codeacademy.
Based on my analysis of the medical insurance data:
I was able to find out the average age, the average cost of smokers and average insurance cost. I was also able to divide up how many people were males, and how many were females. As well as how many were smokers and non-smokers, and with or without children. We also divided the regions up as well. I made a breakdown function that would breakdown each step of the insurance cost using the commented equation but it is not the same equation used to calculate the costs in the csv file it self, however, we can still use this equation to figure out what attributes most to insurance costs. According to our data, being a smoker attributes a lot to your insurance cost with having children coming in second. Also your age, and being a male or female will add a small difference in your total insurance cost. So the older you are, the more likely you are to have higher insurance costs. I also added an ID row to the data. Adding this ID row makes it easier to grab data from the CSV file itself. So if you needed a specific persons data, you can just find the ID number for said person since no names were mentioned in the file. I wasn't able to explore how region costs affected data, however, making a realworld assumption (when it comes to the US anyhow), we can make a synopsis that if you live on the east coast, your insurance costs will be less than those in the western part of the US. However, I don't feel like you can use a region as a good variable either. I feel like when it comes to region, you really need to dial it down to a county/city-state location and go from there as each state, each area and where you live, all have varying costs of living which would impact your insurance cost.
Unrelated to the data, working on this project helped me determine what is important when factoring in data analysis and asking the right questions to find answers that are useful to people who would be wondering what they could do to lower their insurance cost. Unfortunately, the main factors you can focus on for lowering your insurance cost is to not be a smoker and to be able to lower your BMI. All the other variables aren't able to be lowered (especially in the case of having children unless said child is an adult now). I hope someone finds this useful as it was a fun project to work on.
